Read about System Design Concepts ->

Horizontal Scaling -> means that you scale by adding more machines into your pool of resources

Vertical Scaling -> means that you scale by adding more power (CPU, RAM) to an existing machine.

CAP Theorem -> CAP Theorem is a concept that a distributed database system can only have 2 of the 3: Consistency, Availability and Partition Tolerance. CAP Theorem is very important in the Big Data world, especially when we need to make trade off's between the three, based on our unique use case.

ACID DB Properties ->
ACID vs BASE -> Basically Available, Soft state, Eventual consistency
A BASE system gives up on consistency.

Basically available indicates that the system does guarantee availability, in terms of the CAP theorem.
Soft state indicates that the state of the system may change over time, even without input. This is because of the eventual consistency model.
Eventual consistency indicates that the system will become consistent over time, given that the system doesn't receive input during that time.

Partition vs Sharding Data ->

Partitioning is a general term used to describe the act of breaking up your logical data elements into multiple entities for the purpose of performance, availability, or maintainability.

Sharding is the process of storing data records across multiple machines and is MongoDB’s approach to meeting the demands of data growth. As the size of the data increases, a single machine may not be sufficient to store the data nor provide an acceptable read and write throughput. Sharding solves the problem with horizontal scaling. With sharding, you add more machines to support data growth and the demands of read and write operations.

Consistent Hashing


Optimistic Vs Pessimistic Locking
Strong Vs Eventual Consistency
RDBMS vs NoSQL
Types of NoSQL -> Key Value, Wide Column, Document Based, Graph Based
Caching
Data Centers/ RACs/Hosts
CPU/Memory/Hard Drive/ N/W bandwidth
Random Vs Sequential read/write on disk
http vs http2 vs websockets
TCP/IP Model
IPV4 vs IPV6
DNS lookup
HTTPS and TLS
Public Key Infrastructure and Certificate Authority
Symmetric vs Asymmetric key
Load Balancer -> L4 vs L7
CDNs and Edge
Bloom filters vs Count-min sketch
Design Patterns and Object Oriented Designs
Virtual Machines Vs Containers
Publisher / Subscriber or Queue
Map Reduce
Multithreading, concurrency, locks, synchronization, CAS

Read about Technologies ->

Cassandra
MongoDB / CouchDB
MySQL
Memcache
Redis
Zookeeper
Kafka
Nginx
HAProxy
Solr, ElasticSearch
Blobstore like Amazon S3
Docker - Kubernetes / Mesos
Hadoop/Spark -> HDFS
